# Time-Series-Analysis-and-Forecasting

This specific dataset was originally acquired from Zillow.com research data and includes 23,396 observations with 293 variables. The 2 bedroom housing prices in the datset included data between the years of 1976 through the first quarter 2020. The variables in the dataset include a region ID, size rank of a city and state, region name, state, surrounding metro city name, county name, and date columns with housing prices as values. The research interest of this project was to determine if the Chicago housing market has fully recovered since the housing market crash in 2008. We also wanted to predict if the Chicago housing market prices would continue to increase or decrease after the year 2020. 

Exploratory analysis on Chicago, IL 2 bedroom housing was completed by plotting the time series which was determined to be a multiplicative and a random walk.The normality of the series was explored using histograms, qqplots, and the Jarque-Bera test. Stationarity was tested using ACF, PACF and performing Dickey-Fuller and KPSS tests. The null hypothesis was rejected that the series is non-stationary. A final SARIMA model of (1,0,3)(0,0,1)[12] was determined. 

Chicago and Mineapolis were compared for a large versus small housing market comparison. They were found to be co-integrated and found to have similiar growth patterns despite  Minneapolis being a smaller market. The Chicago housing market price was found to have not yet fully recovered after the 2008 housing market crash. It was predicted that the housing market prices would continue to increase, but follow a similiar growth pattern as what has been seen after the housing market crash in 2008. Smaller housing markets such as Minneapolis showed a faster 2 bedroom housing market recovery and growth pattern than the larger housing market in Chicago, IL.
